# Generated Crates

Anything that generates static Rust code should go here (eg. bindings to C SDK's).

## SVD-generated Peripheral Access Crates (PAC)

SVD (System View Description) is a file format that describes the system contained in Arm Cortex-M processor-based microcontrollers.
Specifically, it focuses on peripheral memory mapped registers.
These are used in embedded software development to generate system headers and inform debuggers.
In Styx, we can use these to generate structures to interact with target device peripheral registers.
A description of the SVD file format is available [here](https://arm-software.github.io/CMSIS_5/SVD/html/svd_Format_pg.html).
According to [svd2rust's documentation](https://docs.rs/svd2rust/latest/svd2rust/) the SVD format has been used for other non-cortex-m targets like msp430 and RISC-V so you may have success following these steps for those targets as well.

Some of the generated crates are Peripheral Access crates which are a thin wrapper over the target system's memory mapped registers.
They are [used in embedded Rust](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/start/registers.html#using-a-peripheral-access-crate-pac) development but we use them in Styx to provide convenient APIs for MMIO.
These crates are generated by svd2rust (a fork actually, mentioned later), which take the processor's SVD file and outputs Rust structs/methods with typed register access.

Most of these are generated using a [fork of `svd2rust` with Styx's modifications](https://github.com/styx-emulator/svd2rust/tree/styx).

### How to Use PACs

The structures implemented in svd2rust's generated code are a bit unwieldy without guidance.
Refer to the [using a PAC](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/start/registers.html#using-a-peripheral-access-crate-pac) docs on the embedded Rust page for more details.
Here is another [overview of PACs from training slides by Ferrous Systems](https://rust-training.ferrous-systems.com/latest/book/pac-svd2rust).

Here are a couple code snippets to get you started.

The following examples use the `styx-cyclone-v-hps-sys` crate's UART registers.

#### Reading

```rust
use styx_cyclone_v_hps_sys::{generic::FromBytes, uart0};

let bytes = vec![0u8; 256];
let uart = unsafe { uart0::RegisterBlock::from_bytes(&bytes) }.unwrap();
let dlab_enabled = uart.lcr().read().dlab().bit_is_set();
```

#### Writing

```rust
use styx_cyclone_v_hps_sys::{generic::FromBytes, uart0};

let bytes = vec![0u8; 256];
let uart = unsafe { uart0::RegisterBlock::from_bytes(&bytes) }.unwrap();
uart.lcr().write(|w| w.eps().set_bit().dls().length7());
```

#### Modifying

```rust
use styx_cyclone_v_hps_sys::{generic::FromBytes, uart0};

let bytes = vec![0u8; 256];
let uart = unsafe { uart0::RegisterBlock::from_bytes(&bytes) }.unwrap();
uart.lcr().modify(|_r, w| w.dlab().set_bit());
```

### How to Create a PAC

For a reference command to generate a PAC:

```shell
cargo new --lib styx-stm32f405-sys && cd styx-stm32f405-sys/
svd2rust --target none --field-names-for-enums --feature-peripheral -i ../STM32F405.svd
form -i lib.rs -o src/ && rm lib.rs
cargo fmt
```

Refer to the [svd2rust documentation](https://docs.rs/svd2rust/latest/svd2rust/) for further information.
